how to Future proof your SEO against
Google's next update
all this time and effort into your SEO
strategy and all of a sudden boom Google
wants to change things up on you an
update can have a major impact on your
SEO strategy it can cause your content
to slip in the rankings and even give
your competition a leg up unless you're
prepared future proofing your SEO
strategy is absolutely essential because
updates happen all the time in fact
since 2016 there have been 16 Google
core updates future proofing your SEO
strategy is absolutely essential because
updates happen all the time heck since
2018 there have been roughly three
Google core updates each and every
single year and here's even a crazier
number there's roughly 4500 times that
Google changes their algorithm each and
every single year according to search
and land now most these changes aren't
major one so you're not going to notice
them but still that's a lot of time that
goes into adjusting and tweaking
Google's algorithm and some of these
changes are so teeny tiny that your
traffic just goes up a little bit or
down a little bit and you don't really
need to worry about those but every once
in a while you're going to have a major
update that drastically changes your
traffic and those are the ones that you
need to Future proof yourself from so
how could you future proof your SEO so
that way you can stay ahead of Google's
next update well leave a comment below
guessing what it might be I'll give you
a hand focus on user experience think
about it every Google update has
essentially the same overall goal make
the algorithm more reflective of human
behavior so think about what is best for
people not what's best for Google that
way the pages that users are actually
searching for and spending time on are
the ones that tend to do the best Google
doesn't care if you have a million
backlinks versus 5 million backlinks or
100 000 think about it whenever you do a
search are you like hmm this result it's
number one and it should be because it
has a million backlinks you don't care
about that as a user you just care about
the user experience are you getting what
you're looking for so there's a few ways
you can prioritize your user experience
and give users what they're looking for
the first is make sure your website
loads super fast according to http
archive images made of 21 one percent of
our average web page total weight
remember image size and file size are
not the same thing msi's refers to the
dimensions of an image right like how
big is it look on your screen does it
take it up most the monitor just a
little bit right that's the example of
image size but then you also have
storage space that's like your hard
drive how much space is that image
taking up if it's taking up a lot it's
going to make your website load slower
so you want to make sure that you
optimize your images you also want to
consider using a Content delivery
Network you can find tools or versions
of that for free like cloudflare so
they're also known as cdns and what this
does is cloudflare will put your site on
servers all across the world so that way
if someone in India is busy my site even
though it's hosted in let's say Texas
they can actually pull up that site from
a server in India it's pretty much
mimicking what my site is All Around the
World in different servers closest to
people so that way the site loads faster
another strategy I like doing to improve
the user experiences think about the
content that you are presenting see when
people are searching for something on
Google it's usually they're searching
for solution to their problem are you
giving them the answer as quick as
possible or do they got to read 5000
words I hate it when seos are like you
got to create 5000 word articles to rank
while in Google well if someone's
looking for what's two plus two do you
think they want a five thousand word
article on what's two plus two or if
someone wants to Google how to tie a tie
assuming I'm a company that sells ties
do I think they want 5 000 words on how
to tie a tie no just show me some
animated gifs or video on how to tie a
tie that's more useful people want to
answer as quick as possible that's good
user experience another thing that I
like doing is using tools like crazy egg
to put them on your website it shows you
a heat map of where people are going
clicking and where they're not where
their mouses are moving and where
they're not how far are they scrolling
down your page and how much they're not
scrolling this will tell you
what you need to do to improve your user
experience because you can see where
people are getting stuck and where
they're not another strategy that I love
leveraging when it comes to improving
user experience is to do competitive
research so you're trying to rank for
specific keywords on Google if you don't
know those keywords or what you're
trying to rank for go log into Google
search console put in your domain name
at it it'll tell you all the keywords
that you're getting traffic from and you
should also have Google analytics set up
with Goal tracking and conversion
tracking so you know what keywords are
driving you Revenue that's important
traffic is great but if you double your
traffic get no more sales it doesn't
matter you're just paying more for your
hosting costs you want the Right
audience so look at the keywords that
are driving conversions and the keywords
that you're ranking for on Google using
tools like search console and what I
want you to do is go Google them
literally take the ones from Google
search console go Google those keywords
and see what Compares your ranking ahead
of you what are they doing that you're
not doing don't just look at the first
first one look at the first result the
second result the third result even go
all the way down to the 10th result this
will give you ideas on what other people
are doing better than others what people
aren't doing that give you opportunity
in other words those are the gaps that
you can do with your website whether
that's the content your product your
images your videos your overall
experience
all those things will help you optimize
and beat the competition now when Google
has an update sometimes even if you do
all this stuff sometimes you lose and
you get less traffic that's okay you're
not optimizing for the short run you're
optimizing for the long run because a
lot of times what happens is Google will
make changes and realize wait
this actually wasn't the best change for
the user let me go actually make this
other change and over time if you do
what's best for the end user you'll find
that you'll continually grow your
traffic over time that's the key which
future proofing your website for SEO now
if you just want my Ad Agency NP digital
to just do this All For You
check us out hit us up we were the
agency of the year and we have a great
tracker of doing this if you just have
any questions leave a comment below I'm
here to help if you enjoyed this video
like it share it tell the people about
it thank you for watching